README.md, before:

# SpatialExperiment

[![R build status](https://github.com/drighelli/SpatialExperiment/workflows/R-CMD-check-bioc/badge.svg)](https://github.com/drighelli/SpatialExperiment/actions)

`SpatialExperiment` is an R/Bioconductor S4 class for storing data from spatial -omics experiments. The class extends the `SingleCellExperiment` class for single-cell data to support storage and retrieval of additional information from spot-based and molecule-based platforms, including spatial coordinates, images, and image metadata. A specialized constructor function is included for data from the 10x Genomics Visium platform.

The `SpatialExperiment` package is available from [Bioconductor](https://bioconductor.org/packages/SpatialExperiment).

A vignette containing examples and documentation is available from [Bioconductor](https://bioconductor.org/packages/SpatialExperiment), and additional details are provided in our [paper](https://doi.org/10.1093/bioinformatics/btac299).

The following schematic illustrates the `SpatialExperiment` class structure.

<img src="vignettes/SPE.png" width="800"/>


## Installation

The `SpatialExperiment` package can be installed from Bioconductor. Note that Bioconductor follows a "release" and "development" schedule, where the release version is considered to be stable and updated every 6 months, and the development version contains latest updates (and then becomes the next release version every 6 months).


### Release version

To install the stable release version, install the latest release version of R from [CRAN](https://cran.r-project.org/), then install the Bioconductor package installer and the `SpatialExperiment` package as follows.

```
install.packages("BiocManager")
BiocManager::install("SpatialExperiment")
```


### Development version

To install the development version, there are two options.

(i) Install the development version of the `SpatialExperiment` package from GitHub, using a standard installation of the release version of R from [CRAN](https://cran.r-project.org/):

```
install.packages("remotes")
remotes::install_github("drighelli/SpatialExperiment")
```

(ii) Install a complete `devel` version of Bioconductor. This requires first installing the [appropriate version of R (currently R-devel)](http://bioconductor.org/developers/how-to/useDevel/). Then, install the Bioconductor package installer and the development version of the `SpatialExperiment` package:

```
install.packages("BiocManager")
BiocManager::install("SpatialExperiment", version = "devel")
```


### Updates in versions 1.5.2 and 1.5.3

In version 1.5.2 the `spatialData` slot was deprecated and columns previously stored in `spatialData` moved to `colData`, and in version 1.5.3 the internal class `SpatialImage` was renamed to `VirtualSpatialImage` to avoid a clash with the same class name in Seurat. We recommend updating to version 1.5.3 (or later) and rebuilding existing objects to ensure longer-term compatibility with future versions.

**To use version 1.5.3 or later (as of March 2022), please follow the installation instructions for the development version above.**

(These updates will also be available in the release version from mid-April 2022 onwards, following the Bioconductor release schedule.)


## Citation

Righell D.\*, Weber L.M.\*, Crowell H.L.\*, Pardo B., Collado-Torres L., Ghazanfar S., Lun A.T.L., Hicks S.C.<sup>+</sup>, and Risso D.<sup>+</sup> (2022). *SpatialExperiment: infrastructure for spatially-resolved transcriptomics data in R using Bioconductor.* [Bioinformatics](https://doi.org/10.1093/bioinformatics/btac299), 38(11), 3128-3131.

Commit message:

clean up installation instructions on readme

README.md, after:

# SpatialExperiment

[![R build status](https://github.com/drighelli/SpatialExperiment/workflows/R-CMD-check-bioc/badge.svg)](https://github.com/drighelli/SpatialExperiment/actions)

`SpatialExperiment` is an R/Bioconductor S4 class for storing data from spatial -omics experiments. The class extends the `SingleCellExperiment` class for single-cell data to support storage and retrieval of additional information from spot-based and molecule-based platforms, including spatial coordinates, images, and image metadata. A specialized constructor function is included for data from the 10x Genomics Visium platform.

The `SpatialExperiment` package is available from [Bioconductor](https://bioconductor.org/packages/SpatialExperiment).

A vignette containing examples and documentation is available from [Bioconductor](https://bioconductor.org/packages/SpatialExperiment), and additional details are provided in our [paper](https://doi.org/10.1093/bioinformatics/btac299).

The following schematic illustrates the `SpatialExperiment` class structure.

<img src="vignettes/SPE.png" width="800"/>


## Installation

The current release version of the `SpatialExperiment` package can be installed from Bioconductor as follows. This is the recommended approach for most users.

```
install.packages("BiocManager")
BiocManager::install("SpatialExperiment")
```

The latest development version can be installed from the [development version of Bioconductor](https://contributions.bioconductor.org/use-devel.html) or from GitHub (which may also require some dependency packages to be installed manually).

```
remotes::install_github("drighelli/SpatialExperiment")
```


## Citation

Righell D.\*, Weber L.M.\*, Crowell H.L.\*, Pardo B., Collado-Torres L., Ghazanfar S., Lun A.T.L., Hicks S.C.<sup>+</sup>, and Risso D.<sup>+</sup> (2022). *SpatialExperiment: infrastructure for spatially-resolved transcriptomics data in R using Bioconductor.* [Bioinformatics](https://doi.org/10.1093/bioinformatics/btac299), 38(11), 3128-3131.
